hi well it's a strange title air popper
has actually been around since - since
2000 we were previously owned by
Ericsson and so we've been doing
including R&D for wireless networks
since then as I speak we are being
acquired by the company called Teleca
which of course has ericsson as a
customer they used to be customer to us
as well as a partner and with Teleca
bosses for instance their largest
product something called Oh bagel which
is a platform software platform goes
into their cell phones and there's
always 60 million units that shipped
with that platform in it they also do
end-to-end solutions for operators of
operation and maintenance systems etc
and we they acquire of Wired means that
they will strengthen the multimedia
slide over cell phones and also moving
to media and to the broad costs on which
the products that we do as well so
that's just a brief you know alright
today on channel microphone dozen so
they're running down here right now
yeah okay but is it in turn at what what
is good content I will talk about source
content how you get it what are the key
key issues with getting good source
content so and I will show some tools I
will talk about workflow I will also
talk about some live services which
actually means live broadcasting into
wireless networks and I will of course
make a summary out of this so I will go
between technology side and a bit on
market side as well so first of all
content
one of the major problems for operator
is to get come to because it's actually
not this their operators business the
operators business carriers is about
having voice in your cell phones it's
about having networks etc so this is
completely new to them so usually when
they ask for content that I ask for own
questions and I've seen this so many
times and
I assume a lot of you are content
creators they operate come to say we
want to stream something and you think
well I have something that's streamable
and you give it to them but actually
what I asked about it's not really about
streamable content they're asking about
content period and usually they go
especially to broadcaster and ask this
they think hmmm well we have something
they can stream on the internet and they
give them that and of course they can't
use that because they have to repurpose
that so what they should ask for is of
course maybe the mpeg-2 files which they
have on the video servers which are use
in their original productions the things
that comes out direct from the editing
stations but usually it's a mismatch of
what you asked for and what you're
giving them so that is one of the key
issues and of course this is that
internet content is an adaptive wireless
no matter what people say it's not
really adapted for it then of course
productions I've seen so many
productions being made for Wireless
where they made all the errors you can
think about you have people running
around you have camera movements things
that if you do for Internet you know you
shouldn't do this for the internet sign
because the codecs won't be able to
include it in a very good way and they
make you know shows where they stand up
they have this chroma key behind them
and everything is moving around and on
the Internet at least you have made an
image which is like this on a cell phone
it's like this it could be 30 kilobits
audio and video so that's another thing
productions usually isn't made for cell
phones and when they are done for cell
phones they still think in large format
if the people is actually doing that so
that's one of the things that it's very
very important is to create content that
is workable for cell phones to start
with right issues many times when they
get sports especially they might get the
rights for the images for the video but
it might not get the rights for actual
for the commentary commentators so that
means that they have to put on new
speech which means they have to go into
process of editing and of course that is
not something that an operator usually
has they don't have an
tutorial room they don't have all the
editors then they don't have that kind
of equipment and and also today the
other issue for them is of course that
they need to drive business into the
wireless networks which means that day
many times has to act as a concentrator
and that's what's causing the issues so
you have to to kind of operates carries
today have one who only thinks of them
as bit pipes which takes counter from
someone else and you have the second
ones which believes that we should
create content and that usually creates
a mess on every slide and and the thing
is that what they really need to do is
to make sure that you can moderate the
content creation from the operator to
the actual content rater who knows what
they're doing so you or those people can
create the content which is data from
Wireless to start with so source content
what is good source content well of
course is the highest possible quality I
think most of you who's working you know
with QuickTime tools and n is in this
kind of community you notice that the
more you should compress it the smaller
you know frame times whatever is the
high quality should have this is not
really what an operator carry knows
about so usually the same thing back
they take something from the internet
and they say well we can probably adapt
this so usually I saying the lower the
bitrate you have the higher the quality
you need to have on the source content
so what is good source content of course
it's uncompressed video motion JPEG that
kind of things but also mpeg-1 and
mpeg-2 and maybe might argue about NPR
and big one but if you think about how
much is mpeg-2 that is produced on the
broadcasting side that is a key format
as an input whatever it is and you
should and you can of course use same a
compressed formats and wear you down you
know v Sciences but you should of course
not do thing like you have a smaller
slice than the actual output size I've
seen that as well and many times you do
arrows with you taking a movie and you
actually resizing it but
don't think about you need to crop it
together out of certain areas so what
you're actually doing is a resize anyway
when you do the cropping so bad source
content is of course anything that is
compressed to start with many times you
can't live by this rule but idea is of
course that you shouldn't use compressed
content and all these kind of internet
formats isn't made to be source code for
this kind of encoding for this kind of
production of course it's used extremely
high bit rates it would work as well but
usually when we talk about it
same thing they think they can use
something from the internet no severe
shades captures I've seen that many
times well it's just going to be this
big so who cares
same thing again the lower the bitrate
you have the higher the quality of the
source you need to have and if I said
before smaller size and output size and
many times well it's produced for TV and
you just adapt it to put on a cell phone
and that's not really workable so let's
get into the real stuff about talking
about the encoding for 3d players 3d is
of course 30 and raishin GPRS is two and
a half G in u.s. you have edge which is
also 2 and 1/2 G usually GPRS or edge of
something like that it's about you know
30 kilo base 20 kilobits even if the
specifications allows you for much
higher bit rates but in practice we
talked about 30 kilobits 3d today is
about 64 kilobits in in theories 384 but
we're not really there yet so the
difference is there there are certain
kind of stannis you have a 3d PP
standard and you have a 3d PP 2 standard
and then it's comparison we have is ma
which is basically what you would use in
QuickTime when you do mpeg-4 screaming
or mpeg-4 download and as you can see
there are many similarities between
three people to TPP to the h.263 codec
is the mandatory quadratic in both then
you have the AMR as a speech codec which
is mandatory in 3gpp but in 3 upp to is
Q cell which is in mandatory speech
codec so that's that's data the main
difference you have a more on the 3gpp
to sign as an optional codec if you like
to use it and then we have mpeg-4 simple
visual profile level 0 and that is
basically the same as level 1
which is what you would use on is ma
specifications here or one the
differences from technical point of view
is that on level one you're allowed to
have four objects and in level Syria
only allow that one object but this is
more of a theoretical problem and
practical problem because no one really
makes mpeg-4 with several objects anyway
at this point so we have the simple wish
profile level 0 you have AAC and that is
also similar with is MA we should also
have mpeg-4 but they have level 1 to 3
and they have AC as well
streaming isn't defined for 3gpp2 yet
but it's being they're working on SS
with speech and there is a huge
difference on when you do streaming is
that in 3gpp use Latin packet icing in
ice may you use generic packet icing so
many people sit down and review you know
basic hinting whatever it is with the
curstyn player and they don't get it
work in all phones because many phones
only support according to the previous
conversation so that means that if you
do in streaming for wireless you need to
be aware of this
on Radio Network level it's a bunch of
differences for us people sitting here
is IP and that that is that is the
crucial thing is if IP we're talking
about we just talking about another sort
of carrier or bearer of that kind of
material to see internet or whatever it
is but its own radio networks is very
much different so encoding for 3G or GPS
first of all we're talking about low
down with triple below 64 kilobits
that's what we're talking about and
that's the total IP level so that means
you should we talk about media 11 maybe
54 56 if we're lucky basically so same
thing again you need high quality
content to start with you need to have
good quality codecs of course this is
very important when you're working on
low bandwidth you need to be able to do
pre-processing like deinterlacing
negative gamma correction that kind of
things needs to be done as well for
cellphones yeah typical thing is to
reduce frame rate and then usually I get
arguments saying well then you get this
stuttering video but the thing is that
the screen on a cell phone is pretty
slow compared to computer so the best
thing to do is to reduce frame rate to
get down the bitrate and you do that by
dropping frames if you have if that's
possible in the encoder or but and also
using natural keyframes you don't add
keyframes unless you actually need to do
it so you try to actually get down the
amount of keyframes of course there's a
risk with this because if you lose a
keyframe and it's too long until the
next one you can't recover the video so
it always this way of going up how
should I have actually keyframe or not
and the other thing is of course
bandwidth constraints this is the
crucial part about Wireless is that 64
kilobits is definitely 64 kilobits
there's no Headroom whatsoever and
usually it's not 64 when we talk about a
media level so that means that certain
kind of technology is very important to
do streaming or download whatever it is
for streaming of course it's using
constant bitrate which many many times
believes us flat bit rate constant bit
rates do vary and what it has to do with
is the the video buffer verifier what
the video buffer vary find us it creates
a sliding window so if you put at the 5
seconds and you do then cording it's
going to go over the complete encoding
and during this 5 seconds if you put it
to 64 kilobits the average bit rate
should be 64 kilobits which of course
means that you can have certain peaks
will we should go about 64 kilobits and
you can't have that in wireless network
that's that's just not going to happen
so it's very important if you can lower
the video buffer verifier and I'm going
to show you later on some tools and and
how that can be done usually you down to
things like 0.2 seconds of this lining
window in order to get it to on wireless
network yeah same thing drop frames
natural key frames very very important
you have error handling which usually
it's about packet size because in a
radio network you have certain gateways
first of all you have the IP gateway
which connects the radio infrared
structure into an IP structure and that
can have limitations on how big the
packets can be but typically you have
between 6 and 8 different kind of
gateways you have to pass so that means
that sometimes you won't get a stream
through and it can has to do with some
of the gateways it's not letting to
stream through because the packets is
too big so typically you start with like
600 or some things that are 1200 we
should use for for internet and then we
have something called our VLC reverse
length encoding and that is used
basically going you have congestion if
you lose packets the decoders you'll be
able to recreate some of their pixels
actually but that is also decoder
specific if the decoder can handle it or
not the other thing of course is at this
point
short clips that's what you should do
about 30 seconds because one thing of
course the attention span on TV is
usually you says it's about one minute
one and a half maybe to get attention on
a cell phone is definitely much lower
than that I don't know if 30 seconds I
think that might be too long because
it's on a cell phone you're moving
around I haven't seen that many people
actually walking around watching your
video so usually you have a couple of
centers I actually get in getting their
attention so trying to stick with the 30
seconds to start with unless you're
doing some kind of live encoding of
course it also it's another thing is
that when a new user enters a Radio
Network cell the sound lives where you
actually get your connection you have a
limitation of the total bandwidth so
what happens if I'm moving to cell and
I'm new in that cell I would be
prioritised it means I will get the
highest bitrate possible for as long as
there's a new user coming in then they
will lower it and this is just logistics
of how the system works so that also
means that 30 seconds is a good span
because usually 30 seconds or minutes
you usually have the bit rate the
highest bit you have when you entered so
that's that's not thing to think about
and always speech has priority over data
and you heard this some presentations
before it still I mean the operators
making more money out of speech than
they making out of video services today
so that means if you have a lot of
speech going on in that cell it would be
prioritized so streaming versus download
well there are some some pros and some
cons about it
of course this one thing is that memory
is limited in the cell phones
so therefore streaming is good because
you're not you're not relying on how
much memory you have in your phone you
also actually have less overhead in RTP
packets in an HTTP package so that means
you can actually send more media data if
you do the stream it's a lightweight DRM
in itself it's not that many people I
know of in the world with an actual hein
Jackie screaming cell phone
and if you know them you should give
them my number because that is extremely
hard to do and it's viewable in about
you know two to four seconds it's just
by buffering time before you have it and
the drawbacks of course is firewalls
that's the major problem when some of
you have tested doing streaming on
wireless network so you can't get it
work is because the firewalls is locked
for RTP traffic but if the operators
wants to have streaming they need to
open out the firewalls and that's what's
happening more and more especially in
Europe and Asia at this point it's not
really supported by old phones at
present streaming so also something to
think about which phones can accept
streaming and these law stores on the
phone this is actually for the download
slide but I think it's been hooked up on
the wrong slide so let's move on and so
download the the proofs where is of
course that is support by old phones all
phones can do a download the drawbacks
is of course it's very few phones that
can do progressive download and I think
most of you believe that they can do
this progressive download but I actually
canceled II need to download the
complete file so that is one drawback of
it and then this is the right place for
argument is it needs as I say large
stores on the cell phones compared to
computers it doesn't need need anything
because it's very small files but cell
phone thinking it is really a large file
and ok what about the quality of
download files and usually I hear this
that you're not constrained to bandwidth
limitations when you do a download form
because you're doing in download and
that is of course true but it's not
really good experience to wait 5-10
minutes for breaking news in your cell
phones and it's really annoying me even
on the internet today that you usually
have this you know 56k for more than
download and it takes half an hour to
download
so I would argue and say well that's not
that's not really the way to use an
Internet either but in this case it's
very important because you pay per
packet on wireless network then if I
have some carriers are operates here
they will organ say no no no we have a
unity price and that's true some
operators do have a unity price per
content but some use the model of of
that they actually paying per packet but
the most important things which usually
they don't think about which u.s.
consecrate it should be extremely ware
of it it's a cost for every packet or
operator so if you do a download file
and it has twice the bits twice the size
that you download towards the stream
that means that you might be able to
serve two people instead of one if you
do stream so therefore you should handle
all downloads extremes when we talk
about talk about encoding and bit rates
and things like that because the content
creators that can create faster has a
good quality but has a small fast as
possible it's the one that always want
to go with it might not be true today
they think about this but this is for
costing them this is the capacity to
download things so even if they don't
have a have a unit price per packet it
still is a cost per packet when they're
downloading it so let's talk about some
tools then of course this is this is the
obvious one with QuickTime and as I said
for small operations and of course some
of you probably arguing with that as
well but first of all I mean what you do
is that you acquire the content many
times the Edit is designed said many
operators you edit this they shorten it
they do deduct it adopted for a
different kind of cell phones so it is
easier to have it it's better building
in the cell phones etc and then you
encode it and you distribute it and then
you disappear just a three DP or three
upp to file or something
and in this case QuickTime is of course
a perfect tool is one of the few tubes
on the market today mass market that
actually support 3gpp two and three TPP
so this is the perfect tool
but of course when you're growing when
your business is growing you need more
larger systems and this is one of things
for instance that we do a papaya is a
product called compression master this
is when you're having several stations
where you need to have an encoding
workflow you need to have a lawyer
operation you need to to be able to do
pre-processing etc so let's switch to
this machine okay maybe so first of all
I'm not going to get into every piece of
how you doing cooling process in
sessions about this probably all day
long and tomorrow and there's something
about pre-processing afterwards I'm
going to talk more about the specific
things about Wireless so let's start
with this is a file Swedish artist I
think actually I don't know the Trisha
MacNeil so this is a pharmacist motion
JPEG file and this is of course a
perfect file to make for cell phone
because this is very good produced it's
actually it's in produced for cell phone
as you can see because you have all the
things that said movements whatever is
but it's a rock video and I would love
to see the person can go back to the
producers they can make a video for my
cell phone it's that's not going to
happen either but at least this is a
good source continents here as you
available to get so you think QuickTime
is it's extremely simple so what I do
right now is this of course I go down to
my options and in this I choose 3 upp
and in here I have the 3 DPP specs we
talked about before where I can choose
the mpeg-4 h.263 on the audio sine I can
choose a more AAC if I switch this to
3gpp2
I add it on cue cell so this is a
typical example of how this kind of 3 PP
2 & 3 DPP is differing so and you also
have if you move over here for instance
you can do can do text of course if you
if the telephone supports you in create
text
Rex as well you can destroy me a
narrative small pointer is ma supportive
screaming which means not all phones are
100% compatible if you do stream with
this one but I'm pretty sure that Apple
released agonizing for 3d TV as well so
on the advanced features you have some
things like on 3d people to for instance
you can do you can do fragment and movie
I'm not going to be in that too much but
you add on handlers in the stream
actually so if you if you lose some
packets or if you use something as you
can recapture much much easier and you
also have things on the last time for
different kind of of versions of 3pp
where you do have different kind of
restriction or drm etc so you can do it
but let's move on to the 3d PP side so
in this case my input file is a Paul
file because I'm from Sweden when we use
Paul so I'm going to put in 12.5 as well
and we do keyframes every 25 seconds the
other thing is that you only have two
slices to choose from which is 176 times
144 which is Q Civ and print 1.8 times
minus 6 which is sub Q Civ those are the
sizes that you're allowed to use in 3d
peepin 3gpp2 in theory you're allowed to
use 6 which is 352 x 288 but there's not
really any phones that's that launched
at this point so you can use it but you
won't be able to play it anyway so in
this case we use inclusive and let's say
I'm going to do this for a 64 K Bearer I
would go down something like 48 or 45 or
something like that
in this case I would use AC 16 kilobits
per second and as you see QuickTime
automatically switches to allowed or
best used sample rates which is a really
good feature so now I set up my encoding
it okay and you save and hopefully this
should work so now I'm export
3gp file directly from quicktime but
this also means that all tools that
actually work on top of quicktime of
course can create 3d P files because
it's in the core of QuickTime so this is
my movie is did and this will actually
fit in a cell phone right now it looks
extremely large but it will actually
work so this is how easy it is to do
this kind of encoding with QuickTime -
let's move this to the trash so let's
take a look at the compression master
this is another kind of of - you have
your settings windows I'll go through
this you have your batch windows where
you put in your files your settings to
actually do the encoding so in this case
I have for instance over here I have
bookmarks I can bookmark files whatever
it is files sources folders and where I
have my content but let's start with
they're taking the same kind of file
here so this is my file I'm going to
encode right now so let's start with
some of the templates so I of course get
into 3gpp and Paul input because that's
what I'm using and I'm going to do an
extreme one I'm going to use this
templates with you for GPS we set three
slots and how it works is that one slot
is 12 kilobits in theory but you usually
calculate with 10 and what you can get
in jeepers net was the first rays that
usually can get three time slots which
means 30 kilobits but in theory that
means probably 20 or something when you
took media level so this is an extreme
low bandwidth we're talking about and
this is a download file of course this
is I can do more things for 3 peopIe can
do bunch of other things like every 2
whatever it is but that's not why I'm
here
and I have my codecs which I'm allowed
to do and in this case its name or codec
the speech codec because when you're
down on this lo big phrase
you don't really have bitrate enough to
use AAC so now I'm opening the same file
but for streaming you see it's the same
thing now I can switch between those two
so it looks pretty much the same but
let's switch to this one and same kind
of thing same kind of codecs but now
when we start looking at its of course
we have all this pre-processing you know
like the interlacing all that stuff I
don't need to do this right now because
the movie I have is already the
interlaces motion JPEG files so but
otherwise you have all kind of
pre-processing you need to do and
science as well I using the cue sift
science and you have a lot of pre-made
Sciences which you can use of course
yeah and then let's get into the mpeg-4
side Oh 300 kilobits that's cool so
let's do download let's do 48 I'm not
really living by my rules fully so if
you switch to the streaming file right
now
we see that on the streaming file
actually put the bitrate to 18 kilobits
and I used on the audio side I use 4.75
kilobits so that means I have something
like 23 kilobits in total and that would
probably be possible to get through on
the stream on three time slots on the
download side I haven't really lived by
the rules as I said before because I
actually put it in 48 kilobits and on
the audio is is the same as 4.75 but
that means that I'm I'm setting the
level at 64 kilobits or 56 at this point
to make sure that I get a far which is
not done big the main difference here is
this buffer size DVD size on a download
file I put this to 10 seconds which
means that the sliding windows is 10
seconds which means that I can fluctuate
much more because it's not the stream
it's downloading so you don't really
have to think about if you have Peaks
you more have to think about the total
total size of the file if I'm going to
stream file
well you will see it's very much
constrained 0.6 seconds to guess this
through and of course this is templates
which you can then you can of course
change for self you need to fine-tune
this but these are maybe some some as
you said we're extreme but we're also
seeing this on on wireless networks how
hard it is to get the screen through I
also have trained screaming to skip
probability 55% which means that I'm
telling the codec that you are allowed
to really drop frames to maintain data
rate on the download side I have none
because I don't need to maintain the
data rate I just need to have the
overall bitrate actually so I'm usually
not your keyframes on both I could add
in a distance if I like to so if I'm
afraid that it's it's condonation moving
that much and I don't want to make sure
that I can recover the video I can put
in a max distance in the keyframes as
well but I'll need to do this I do two
paths on though and then we're coming to
this thing is that different kind of mp4
profiles this case it's simple profile
same thing if you would use in is MA but
this is the important thing it's level
serum since when you're doing in encode
anything even if we do our own encoder
the encoded don't see the difference
between choosing level 1 or level 0 so
that's why it's an annual thing that you
have to press to say you have to write
this down as level 0 so that's the
reason why and then we put in all the
sciences were a lot of things that we
did so let's do something calling them
so now this is my source I can even I
can double click like and drag it in so
right now I'm putting in let's see save
those so let's do these twos now I'm
adding those and of course now I'm
encoding those and they are ending up in
my very Swedish name clora
which means ready in Swedish which means
that's why the phone's going down
during this process of course I can add
on more fun so I can add on for 3G like
64 kilobits or I can I can actually do
on the fly I can prioritize whatever who
should be encoded so now I've done my
three UT files for wireless for the
three time slot and as you can see right
now play all movies you see there is a
difference between what's happening on
the download versus the stream file as
you see it's very very highly
constrained stream file to the left side
because of I really need to get the
bandwidth through that's all so that's
that's that's the important thing
then of course on top of this you can do
a bunch of different kind of you know
pre-processing but usually the error
people do is that they add on too much
pre-processing and I'm using all the
time QuickTime to verify if it works
because QuickTime has to sign before is
one of the few players aren't that it
can actually play through the people
corner on a Mac or PC yeah the thing is
that QuickTime is a great player it can
play pretty much whatever and if it
looks crappy we'll make it look good so
on sort of a positive- way I'm telling
you you must verify it in your cell
phone how it looks do not verify it I
think oh this looks great and because in
QuickTime everything will actually look
great so that is one of the key thing is
that really shake it so after a while
you learn to see that if it looks like
this in QuickTime this is how it will
look in a cell phone so and then I've
done two other phones here as well for
64k bit which is for 3g done so let's do
play all movies and you have the same
thing here you see on the screen thing
you have it dropping more friends than
on there
but basically it's the same approach but
I'm I'm giving some more bits on the
download sound and on the stream inside
and it's all due to this that trying to
get the file size down is very very
important because that means that the
operator can serve more users so let's
move away from the demo side I think
well almost perfect so when you get into
some larger scale operations well then
the tool like a compression master isn't
really sufficient either yeah so for
operators they need an automated system
and this is where we see the expertise
from content creator comes in because
what I need is like we have something
called the compression engine which is a
server based progress you can cluster
among you know as many exercies you like
whatever and you create xml settings
with a master and you drop them in xml
watch folder so if you put 10 settings
in one watch folder and drop in file you
get 10 files out of it of course so that
is having an automated system and this
is fully working on the macintosh
environment and then it will support
meet the data input and output as well
so this is like for the high end system
so this is a real world example of an
operator that actually does this and
it's not a savior actually touches on
which brand name is called 3 in Europe
and Asia which is a 3d operator which is
really really pushing the limits of what
you can do with 3d today so what they do
is that they have a post production
company on the top as you see which
actually works and works like a sort of
quality control they are making settings
they are verifying settings they are
talking to the content owners creators
to making sure that they're getting the
right kind of formatting material the
right kind of source code whatever it is
and this model has proven to be the best
and most efficient way as I've seen for
an operator carrier to do business
they don't really have the skills about
how to best optimize content for
wireless because it's very much to do
with your knowledge of video and how you
do codecs and how are you is not how you
do course but how you actually put in
settings in the course on how you do so
this is a real-life example where they
from the left side is that some things
comes directly across production company
where they sit down and work with
typically will be trailers then we'll
sit down and work with it if it's 50
video clips coming from like a Grass
Valley service empik to going directly
into watch folders being encoded
automatically and something the phone
and also it's a lot of getting tapes
which the operator actually have they
have an editorial staff which actually
do editing what they're now working on
is replacing the tapes with with a
compression engine to actually take it
directly from the editing station and do
it into like an mpeg-2 going directly to
see people to from the content where
content owner but it's always they have
their post production company which
actually is creating the settings and
making sure it works so live services
and there's been a lot of services
started where they do live webcourse or
whatever you call it on wireless
networks one of things before traffic
surveillance this is a really good thing
taking up your phone calling number four
four two whatever is seeing how is the
traffic on my road that's been that's
been a killer wrapping in Asia for
instance yeah but I'm going to show you
something that's been as I not all or
agree with it I would say the first ever
really successful 3d service and that
has to do with live thing in Sweden or
in very many countries so with 30 we
have something a program a TV show
called Big Brother it's extremely stupid
you know sort of show but them and I
actually watch it
unfortunately what is that you put X
amount of people I think is 10 or 12
into house for hundred days you cut off
all all they can talk to anyone outside
our house except if they bring someone
in
stir something up and they are filling
this room and of course there's some key
things about it is that it's a closed
environment so you can monitor them all
the time Canon cameras there the other
thing is that every week they design of
two people that we should nominate which
the audience can vote out which you here
this is a great show and and and also it
is the other thing is that every
newspaper whatever it is or every kind
of media is talking about this so it's a
reality TV show it goes directly into
the youth segment and it's a lot of
viewers I don't know if you have this in
here us but in European is pretty big I
see some guys from UK here and they are
laughing with me so a basis 24/7 action
it's happening things all the time so
the service offering from free which is
the brand name for the operator but in
this case it's the Hutchison is the
company which has is based in Hong Kong
malucia's which is visible in Italy UK
Sweden Norway Denmark and I don't know
your town but the Hong Kong etc so in
this case they have six live feeds you
can get in on 24/7 you can connect to
those life is to see what's happening of
course the shower cam has been the most
popular one and but they also have as
you see twenty to thirty news items
daily so it's like it's like ordinary
news 5-6 video news as well a weekly
Diaries from participants and they blend
this in with SMS which is what you would
call I think you would say messaging or
text messaging in your phone but that's
SMS for me and it bring it with
ringtones and images whatever it is so
and on top of this of course they have
all the other offerings like videos
whatever is from like MTV and stuff like
that so the pricing for this is sold at
subscriptions so what you do is that you
buy a Big Brother subscription and you
pay two euros for 24 hours to be able to
watch that or five years or seven days
etc
and downloads to your phones were sold
separately this unity price if you
wanted to download some some very
interesting clips from what happening in
different cameras for the shower cam but
anyway yeah and you have 24/7 publicity
every newspaper is talking about this
and this is this was reproduced it was
same kind of concert in Italy as well
it's worth the same in Italy every
newspaper was writing about it and then
something happened the booster with the
person called Oleg on which is a woman
and what happened was it got the thing
happened I'm not going to get into it
that much but it got all the headlines
in all the tabloids police were removed
which of course in Sweden means that
everyone knows about it they did banners
about you know seeing this blah blah
blah whatever it is and the police came
there and things like that and they even
used it in commercials so what happens
what's after this six percent of the
subscribers both access immediately as
soon as this hit and it's not about
180,000 live streams and for you working
in Internet you know this is extremely
good figures for Internet even if many
people say you know as millions of
people that can watch it usually that's
not the fact and everytime was about two
minutes and I might sound very little
but it's pretty much if you consider
it's in the cell phone you might walking
around whatever it is and of course it's
at last 24 hours
this is some weeks ago actually so when
this presentation was done they had
thirteen thousand two hundred hits that
week and less than 24 hours and that we
they put seven thousand live stream so
it's pretty pretty mess and here you can
see actually what happened and you can
see just where it dips and then all that
came into the picture
and it took like four days so this is a
really successful 3G service and so the
outcome of course was everyone sharing
everyone was really really happy
Bounty's and suddenly there was a 3d
killer app out there that actually works
it might have been very stupid but it
did work and got a lot of attention so
it was a successful peer marketing thing
it was had very much high usage and it
had an international rollout as well so
this is one of the futures I've seen
worked because it was also cross
I don't was like you know cross media it
was in newspapers it was on the internet
it was on the cell phones wherever ISM
so this was really really working so in
this case the technique factor set up
was of course to create this and now
people are going to kill me but I'm
going to recover from that one as well
is that in this case they use the
product from us actually running on
Linux on screen so they have six feeds
coming in directly from the vision
mixers going 24/7 which could be
accessed by both phones the interesting
thing is that in Italy there was a trans
transcoding between RTSP traffic and
video conferencing 83 to 4 M so in Italy
they call the number they didn't browse
they call the number for different
counts and I think the same thing is
going to be set up in UK as well so this
was this was how it was set up but then
of course the good thing is this kind of
product will be released on those tan
platform very very shortly so we'd be
able to do this end-to-end on a nose 10
platform and copied pretty much their
concept if you like to of course you
have to find a stupid show to broadcast
not you can still do this because of the
quick downstream service for the 3d
peter compliant so what we're releasing
is the 3d PPS we sell live in court
reports according to is ma as well it's
fine wire input and of course we built
it on the excerpt the cause of the
reliability because you need to have
uptime it has to run 24/7 it has to be
cost effective that's the reason I'd
actually ended up on limits to start
with but that's also because we've been
developing our own Apple machines even
if it ends on Linux so for us it was
just a matter of time before releasing
on the Apple platform you can remote
control it as well so
the summary a top 10 T top 10 key
success factors is of course understand
operate its business it's a unity price
it Prime's the packet how is the service
position it's very it might sense you
but it's very important for you as a
conjugate to understand that because
that can actually influence you on how
you need to create a content it could be
on a very very low technical level that
has to be decided depending on how the
business model it also is very important
that it's integrated towards existing
system legacy systems and especially on
the broadcasting or the media sign so it
works with their workflow in within
their production environment that's
another key issue so you don't have to
take your mpeg-2 and reformat that into
it an AVI filing - whatever it is then
well put it out and then do it it has to
be able to take it directly from the
video server push it through system get
it out and of course QuickTime and this
is also key thing because you can pretty
much swallow any kind of format so it's
very very important to have that kind of
workflow time to show time breaking news
must be breaking news if you have a set
up a system a way of doing this that
breaking news takes three hours it's not
breaking news it has to be done in one
minute
and I can tell you if you buy a
subscription for breaking news to your
cell phone you're pretty much expected
to get it before everyone else because
it's a cell phone hour moving around and
that's the whole idea with being mobile
and getting these kind of news make sure
that the format's are fully compiling
the 3gpp and 3gpp - I know there are
proprietary formats out there works and
cell phones but all cell phones on the
market supports at least 3gpp or 3gpp to
and the division within 3gpp and three
people - is the 3pp is basically used in
Europe and Asia and TPP - on American
continent in Japan you have both
operates which q3 people - and 3gpp but
in general - upp Europe Asia three
people - M us but as you've seen it's
not that much of a difference it's very
very important to understand that all
phones today do
for 3 GPP or 3gpp2 and maybe a
proprietary forms as well use high
quality source I've said it's like 10
times are not going to repeat it any
more important understand the natural
constraints because you're not really
used to this if you're doing is free
internet or whatever it is it's like
understand the limitations make sure you
know what's happening on the firewall
side do you have X amount of gateways is
there any limitations in your gateways
and and really get that kind of
understanding usually the operate might
not tell you but if you can find out see
how is things prioritized have you
prioritizing scheme for how someone gets
into a cell and of course the obvious
one is optimized decompression food
distribution for wireless networks and
put for the display mobile phones and
all the ways start with using as little
pre-processing as possible only use like
deinterlacing to start with and see
what's happening the phone because it's
a slow screen and many times I see
people use a lot of glue and things like
that because they also compare this or
set in QuickTime but watch it on the
phone before you do that streaming
versus download always Street a download
as stream when we talk about this if you
do 64 kilobits set or 64 kilobits but
you don't have to be as constrained as
you dropping a lot of frames and using
very very little video buffer verifiers
but you should always create it as a
download file set except if your
operators as well go ahead do whatever
you like but I think that that would be
T of you letting the operator know that
you know for a fact this will cost you
more if I do this kind of big phones and
and of course be the expert because no
matter what you've heard people saying
here probably here and other places is
that the operates carries this is a
completely new business to them they are
used to handling speech and having radio
networks and they just barely sone using
IP networks and being sort of IP bit
pipes so try to be the expert
because that's what I really need and
make sure that they do understand all
the complexity of our production and of
course the most motional support is test
this is this is new to you as well this
is new for everyone and it's going very
very fast at this point all development
so it's really important to test out to
see both from technical point of view
and also to see is this a good service
did it work out is it really good to do
this music video maybe we should do
something else whatever it is I think
that is that is the key thing so that's
it